Is – Displays information about files in the current directory.
pwd – Displays the current working directory.
mkdir – Creates a directory.
cd – To navigate between different folders.
rmdir – Removes empty directories from the directory lists.
cp – Moves files from one directory to another.
mv – Rename and Replace the files
rm – Delete files 
uname – Command to get basic information about the OS
locate– Find a file in the database.
touch – Create empty files
ln – Create shortcuts to other files
cat – Display file contents on terminal
clear – Clear terminal 
ps- Display the processes in terminal
man – Access manual for all Linux commands
grep- Search for a specific string in an output
echo- Display active processes on the terminal
wget – download files from the internet
whoami- Create or update passwords for existing users
sort- sort the file content
cal- View Calendar in terminal
whereis – View the exact location of any command types after this command
df – Check the details of the file system
wc – Check the lines, word count, and characters in a file using different options 
yum - To install the software.
sudo su (switch)
useradd - To add user without any privilleges.
passwd - To allocate password to user.
chmod - change and modify.
chown - change the owner.
vmstate - To check the storage.
ping - Trying to connect to another server.
unzip<filename> - To unzip file.
head - Return the specified number of lines from the top
tail - Return the specified number of lines from the bottom
diff - Find the difference between two files
cmp - Allows you to check if two files are identical
comm - Combines the functionality of diff and cmp
export - Export environment variables in Linux
zip - Zip files in Linux
ssh - Secure Shell command in Linux
service - Linux command to start and stop services
ps - Display active processes
kill and killall - Kill active processes by process ID or name
mount - Mount file systems in Linux
ifconfig - Display network interfaces and IP addresses
stop services
ps - Display active processes
kill and killall - Kill active processes by process ID or name
df - Display disk filesystem information
mount - Mount file systems in Linux
chmod - Command to change file permissions
chown - Command for granting ownership of files or folders
ifconfig - Display network interfaces and IP addresses
traceroute - Trace all the network hops to reach the destination
wget - Direct download files from the internet
ufw - Firewall command
iptables - Base firewall for all other firewall utilities to interface with
apt, pacman, yum, rpm - Package managers depending on the dist
whatis - Find what a command is used for
